# Palatal-rugae-as-a-Parameter-in-Identification-of-Human-Being-using-Image-Processing
In this world of simulation, the identity of anyindividual is  always questionable in situations ofmass massacres and  disasters. A lot ofliterature is available on forensic  odontology tools, but still this branch of odontology is in its  infancystage in India.Establishing a person‟s identity can be  a very difficult process in forensic identification. Dental,  fingerprints, and DNA comparisons are the most common  techniques used in this context allowing fast andsecure  identification. However, since they cannot be always used,  sometimes simple techniques can beused successfully in  human identification, such as „Palatal rugoscopy„, which is  the study of palatal rugae.Palatal rugae have been equated  with fingerprints and are unique to an individual.[5] It can be of special interest in edentulous cases and also in  certain conditions where there are no fingers to be studied,  such as burned bodies or bodies that underwent severe  decomposition.Their resistance to trauma and their apparent  unique appearance has suggested their use as atool for  forensic identification. A large amount of data can be stored and quick retrieval of  information will be possible which may assist in immediate  and effective identification of an individual. It would be  beneficial to conduct further studies in large samples and  taking more parameters for palatal rugae analysis in all races  of the world, so that a national data can be prepared. The  palatal rugae pattern can act as a fingerprint inidentification  of a person. The analysis of palatal rugae combined with  other methods is an important alternative and  complementary technique for human identification.[4] The shape of rugae was compared between the two study  groups and was found to be highly significant between  western Indian and northern Indian subjects. The numberand shape of rugae differed significantly between the  genders, with males having a highly significant difference as  compared to the females. The western Indian group showed  wavy shape predominantly in males and females had straight  rugae. Similarly, the northern Indian male participants also  had wavy shape; however, females in this group had more  curved shaped rugae. [2]
